---
layout: post
title: Week 4 - Reflecting on the first taste of open source
---

This week has been very rewarding. Seeing other people's browser extensions, seeing how they worked together and what they did to conform to open source, as well as presenting our project and making comparisons to others, taught me a lot that I definitely would not have thought of if we hadn't seen the other groups' projects. 
<!--more-->
<br><br>
Our project, ShadyNotes, as I mentioned in last week's post, definitely faced some issues and the process of working collaboratively on it wasn't perfectly smooth. However this week there were new issues: I, after implementing a few new features that I thought improved the functionalities and ease of use for a user, didn't then check again before the presentation to make sure that there weren't any more changes made to it that affected my implementations. As it turned out, my group mates had made further changes to the extension that canceled out a few of my changes, and I didn't notice.
<br><br>
I think in this regard, both myself and my teammates could have done better. We should have better communicated what had been changed, what functions were added or removed, and we definitely should have notified each other of such changes instead of expecting each other to find out for themselves. I also was at fault, as I should have constantly been keeping an eye on our code to make sure that my knowledge of it was always up to date so I didn't make any blunders, assuming that my code was what was in the final version. In terms of open source, this is definitely not the best practice, as open source is all about collaborative work, and communication should always be the main priority, apart from the code itself. We definitely should keep this in mind moving forward to be more vigilant in communicating with our teammates, and let them know what work we did, especiaslly if our updates affect other people's work. I think one possible solution could have been to update our team's live log on edstem that detailed what we did, since git commit messages are short and can't fit everything, and we can't expect out teammates to go into the code and figure out the changes for themselves.
<br><br>
My personal contributions to our extension were mostly wiped out in the final version - and again, this is no single person's fault and I don't blame anyone - but I did implement a few functionalities that I was convinced did better make the extension easier to use for a user and the code more readable for a contributor. Because our extension is all about making a notepad that was easily accessible and customisable, I made a few changes that targeted those goals. I implemented a functionality that made sure that if a user accidentally pressed enter on an empty text bar (where the note is entered to be stored), it would not be stored, as the previous note would be removed by a blank entry. I also added some lines to automatically change the text colour of a select background colour, such as automatically changing the text colour to white when a blak background is selected, etc. Both of these were removed in the final product, and I think this definitely could have been avoided if we communicated better, and also kept an eye out for other people's changes and been more mindful of their work.
<br><br>
In terms of the code for the extension, writing the main functionalities (such as the html, css, and javascript) were easy enough, and I did learn web design in previous semesters. However the files and code specific to making this code an extension, such as the manifest file, were more difficult to understand, and which lines were required, and how these JSON lines were necessary, were something I did not know. Also, our initial idea before deciding to make a notepad extension, was to create a theme picker for *any* website of a user's picking, however we quickly learned that this was almost impossible to keep consistent and bug free as different websites use different HTML tags, classes, and IDs for elements, and it is impossible to create an extension that can somehow figure out which tag is used for the background, etc. A custom theme picker is definitely possible for a few select website that we as the developers know the exact tags for elements we need of, and only focusing on a few select websites that we have control over is something we should keep in mind for any future projects.
<br><br>
For other groups' projects, I definitely had a few favourites. I really loved the [youtube customiser](https://github.com/ossd-s23/YouTube-Customizer) (I'm sure most people did), and it was easy to tell that they really put a lot of work and thought into making it. I took a look into their code, and they really did document it *really* well, and each section of the code were preceded by huge block comments that told the reader exactly what the following code is for. I really loved that. I think their choice of extension is also really thoughtful, as we all use youtube constantly and we all know first hand how annoying certain elements of a youtube page can be. They also made it fun with the meme progress bars. I really liked it, and I want to contribute to it in the near future.
<br><br>
A few things in general that I concluded from watching the presentations is that many groups had different choices for their open source license. I personally did not have a strong preference for one license over another, and I think I should really start thinking more about the license and what we should be allowing other people to do with our code in the future, and not be so carefree about it. I also noticed that for a few groups that had extensions that had pretty simple functionalities, they still write very detailed documentation and installation/use tutorials for it. I think this is also something I should learn from and keep in mind in the future, as open source should all be about clear instructions and creating a welcoming and helpful environment.
<br><br>
Contributions: this week I made small contributions. I suggested that the repository to the course website itself be added to the navigation bar at the top of the website, as currently there is only one link to the GitHub orgnisation that does not include the course website repo. I also made a few editing suggestions to my Security & Cryptography courses's course textbook, which is currently being written by Professor Bonneau, and who requested that we help edit and made changes to the textbook as we see fit.