---
layout: post
title: Week 11 - Group work, and the Cathedral and the Bazaar
---

We made quite some progress this week in our group project (Jarvis). The Cathedrawl and Bazaar was also a very interesting discussion, and all the lessons that are discussed in the essay are very thought-provoking, and deserves some rumination.
<!--more-->
<br><br>
With our project Jarvis, we as a group decided to first contact the creator. There was no reply, and it seems that the main maintainer of the project has been handed to someone else, and so we simply reported a few of the bugs that we found while playing around with Jarvis to the repo's issues tab. The maintainer replied fairly quickly and helpfully, and provided insight into what we can do with the issues and potential solutions (if we didn't suggest one) or alternate solutions (if we did). For example, because Jarvis runs in the terminal, it currently only supports a default text colour of white, dark blue, and dark red. However it's the same whether the computer system is light theme or dark theme, and on a dark terminal background it the dark text colours are almost unreadable. We suggested an automatic change in text colour based on detection of the terminal background colour or the OS's theme, and the maintainer agreed that this issue is crucially important, and pinned the issue. He also suggested the possibility of manual configuration of personal preferences as a new feature, and linked us to a previous open issue that discusses personal configuration.
<br><br>
We also submitted two other bug issues, one of which was to add more concise installation instructions to the README, as currently the instructions are very vague, and we all ran into problems during installation. Given that we are operating on different OSs (myself Windows and my groupmates Mac) we agreed that it was a very pressing issue to resolve and help others who no doubt will also likely run into problems. We compiled a small list of frequently encountered issues and how to solve them, and made a PR to add it to the README. It is currently pending review.
<br><br>
I think the Cathedral and Bazaar essay is a very interesting read, and the lessons I mostly agree with and have experienced myself. For example, the very first lesson is exactly why I decided to take this course and become involved in open source in the first place. The first lessons states that "Every good work of software starts by scratching a developer's personal itch.". This means that every software should aim to solve a problem, and it will only be a good software if the develeoper or founder of the project is genuinely invested in making it a good solution to that problem. I've always found that none of the current planning or task scheduling apps out there, such as Notation or Monday, really work for me. I've been using Excel as a way to organise my daily schedule and deadlines, and it's such an easy way to do so, without all the hassle of the software that only aim to make their UI pretty with a bunch of symbols and functions. I want to be able to make a planning and scheduling software of my own, but I also realise that I'm a little underskilled, and will likely need help to really build a full software, so I turned my gaze to open source. But then again, I know nothing about open source, which is why I decided to enroll in this course, and I hope to be able to found an open source project to make this software. So I fully agree with this lesson. Any software that is made by devs who lack enthusiasm about it isn't going to be good, easy-to-use software.
<br><br>
During the group progress reports, I think we as a class are all at pretty similar stages. It seems that the installation process hasn't really been easy for anyone, and we are all at the stage where we have a general idea of what we want to do and are in the process of planning our work. I think given that we have only a few weeks to really work on contributing, we should definitely be aiming for small contributions and not trying to implement a full new feature. This is exactly what our team is aiming to do, fixing small bugs while continuously working on a slightly bigger issue, but definitely not trying to do something out of our skill area.