---
layout: post
title: Week 3 - Git and Firefox browser extension group work
---

This week has been very exciting and rewarding. The git exercise that we did during Tuesday in class was nothing new, however it did refresh my memory of how to use branches and forks, as well as how to properly maintain the relationships between the different copies of the main repository. I really liked my jokes. I hope someone will see them?<br><br>
<!--more-->

My group, Team 10 (Danielle, Phoebus, and myself) worked very well together. Like I mentioned in my blog from last week, both my teammates are very friendly, and we had good communication over the course of the week over email. At first there was some dispute over whether we should use a more convenient method of communicating like discord or text, but then we didn't all use the same software so we had to settle for email. It was a little more difficult to maintain, as there were days were nobody replied to emails, but we did start work early so it wasn't a problem.<br><br>

We settled on doing something simple, and our original decision was to make a theme picker for any webpage, such as changing it to dark mode or some other theme. However it turned out to be a little more work than we thought and we ran into some bugs, so we had to change our idea to making a simple notepad popup, which a user could still customise but we had a lot more control over it. I think one thing we could have done better was to log the bugs we initially faced in the issues tab on GitHub, but before that was done we'd already decided to change the project, and by then logging the bugs for our scrapped project was no longer needed.<br><br>

We worked evry well together, in my opinion. Because we did have a week to do it, we were able to work on the porject during different time frames and so we didn't encounter any merge conflicts. We were also able to quickly decide on the workload for both the code and for the presentation.<br><br>

Phoebus laid out the basics for the code as both Danielle and I were busy during the start of the week, and when I had the time to work on it I simply added more functionalities to the extension, as well as made changes to the UI to make it more pleasing. I think overall it was good work from all of us.