---
layout: post
title: Week 13 - Open source in business
---

This week we didn't have an invited speaker; instead we discussed open source in business. I think it's quite interesting how something I'd assumed wouldn't work at all in business actually has many different uses and forms of involvement in business and as a means to profit. Before taking this class, I had no idea how open source could be involved in business at all, I had thought that running on volunteered work and contributions would mean that there is nobody paying them and mostly no profits made.
<!--more-->
<br><br>
At the start of the semester when we were asked to do evaluations on open source projects, I remember doing my evaluation on VSCode. I had been very confused as to why VSCode seems to have two versions, an open source version and a non-open source version which is deployed and what we use on our computers, and with the knowledge provided in clsas it seems to be an example of open core. The open source version in free and provides the basic functionalities, while Microsoft's own deployed version has other functionalities. I went back to VSCode's GitHub repo and found an issue where a maintainer directly comments on this distinction, and it was an interesting read.
<br><br>
What surprised me the most is that there is bounty driven development, where a bounty can be imposed on an issue. I find this very interesting and probably a good way to earn a little money for when you have the time to do a little bug fixing. Note to self: look into this later.
<br><br>
This week in our group work, we managed to resovle two of the issues we reported and made two PRs, both of which are awaiting review. We actually had someone try to snipe one of the issues, but luckily the guy had the decency to comment on the issue thread and inform us of his intentions first, and we were able to come to an agreement about what we could do and what we'd leave to him to do. The issue itself was to change the text color of Jarvis based on terminal background color: currently the text is in dark blue and dark red, and is utterly unreadable on a black terminal background, so we and the maintainer had been discussing the possibilities of either changing the text color based on detection of the terminal's background colour, or by manual configuration. Eventually we had come to the conclusion that simply changing the current text color with something a little lighter so that it works on both light and dark backgrounds is a good compromise, and we'd set out working on this, when someone else commented that he also wants to work on this issue, and actually implement a new plugin/feature that allowed manual config. We talked to him and decided that our codes likely won't conflict, so we can continue working on our changes, and let him implement the plugin.
<br><br>
We also had a meeting to try and decide on what we can make for a whole new plugin. We thought about making a plugin that pulls code contest data from multiple platforms, but it turned out there was already a feature for that. We also discussed some other possibilities but ultimately couldn't reach a conclusion. I think our biggest failure so far is that we couldn't make any big contributions yet. The project is active, yes, but the maintainer only checks the repo on weekends it seems, so every time we had an issue we had to wait for the maintainer to give us the go ahead first. But hopefully we can still make a new plugin in the time we have left.