---
layout: post
title: Week 15 - Final presentations
---

This is the final full week of class, and the final week that we as a group worked on our project. We got to see what the other groups achieved, and I think we all learned a lot from watching their presentations and see how they went about with their first go at open source.
<!--more-->
<br><br>
In our final few days of work, we were able to squeeze in quite a lot of final work. We reported a few issues that we found, though for most of the issues we didn't have enough time to actually fix them. But we did plan ahead of time to solve a few issues, such as fixing the 'country' plugin, and fix crypto trackers and so on. The schedule was tight but we did manage to get those PRs in just before our presentation day, and so we didn't get to see if they were accepted or not.
<br><br>
Our presentation, given that we had to answer quite a few prompts, was a good opportunity for us to all reflect on our journey this semester. Our group all agree that we worked well together, and we all really appreciated having each other as teammates. Jarvis was indeed a good starting point to our open source journeys, even though it wasn't necessarily the best, due to the slightly slow response time of the maintainers and the lack of issues to fix (that we didn't find ourselves). But the code base itself was easy to understand, and so all in all it was a good first project. We reflected on our communication with the maintainers, and we thought about how we could improve in the future, such as setting a time when we absolutely had to take further measures to make sure the maintainer replied to us. There were definitely a few highlights during the semester when we were able to do a good job and were commended by the maintainer, but we also ran into some issues, ranging from installation problems to almost getting sniped by someone on one of our issues.
<br><br>
Watching the other groups' presentations also taught me a lot about other types of open source projects, as well as other modes of communication and interaction with the open source community. Because Jarvis is a small project and only mostly involves code contributions, to see other groups such as FreeCodeCamp or Maple really opened my eyes further. I'd almost forgotten that documentation contributions or translation were also possibilities for contribution, as Jarvis doesn't have these requirements. I was very impressed by the amount of different work that the other groups were able to do, and I'm looking forward to seeing the last of the presentations next week.