---
layout: post
title: Week 6 - Project evaluations and open humanitarian projects
---

The project evaluations that we completed this week, both in a group and on our own, were very interesting. In completeing those evaluation forms and answering the specific questions, I learned that how suitable a project is for a beginner in open source is not only dependent on a few aspects like how many open issues there are in a github repo.
<!--more-->
<br><br>
Before working on these evaluations, I had thought that there were only a few factors that could be looked into hwen evaluating whether an open source project is good for beginners. I also didn't know that a good open source project would intentionally and specifically be mindful of those who are entirely new to the concept of open source and have never contributed before, or want to contribute but are limited in skill. I had thought thtat it wouldn't be easy to find a place in open source given that our class mostly fits both criteria, but as it turns out many project will have issue labels that help beginners pinpoint what they can do and start getting involved.
<br><br>
The taking stock activity was effective in helping me organise my thoughts and goals. I realised that as much as I wanted to get involved in big projects and make meaningful contributions, I'm definitely very limited in both skill and time to put into it. I think when we do get to the team contributions, we will have to work on issues as a team and talk about it, so I also realised that we are going to have to be coding collaboratively and putting our skills together in a way that complements each other. But I also realised that in terms of programming language, it will be a bit difficult to complement because a project will be mostly coded in one language and having people who are prpoficient in different languages in one team may not work.
<br><br>
I think in terms of the projects themselves, after looking at the evaluations, I would like to work on a project like FreeCodeCanp. Even though we were shown an example of a not very welcoming conversation from their repo, I still think it would be a good place to start. The community was very quick to admonish bad behaviour and it seems that the experience was oeverall beneficial and enjoyable enough that the blogger stayed. Also, given the evaluation, I think it is amongst one of the most beginner friendly projects that were evaluated, which also didn't require me to learn a whole new language (like TypeScript).
<br><br>
THe biggest chasllengeu I anticipate is communication and coordination within our team. Even with our add-on extension activity where we were only a team of three, we faced problems where we weren't communicating our ideas, changes, and problems enough or clearly. Not all of us were super willing to meet up during a time when we were all free either. I do think this will become a problem during our team contributions, but I think if we communicate enough, even if asyncrhonously, it shouldn't be too much of an issue.