---
layout: post
title: Week 14 - Wrapping up group work
---

It's the final two weeks of class and our collaborative journey to the introduction of open source. I'm a little disappointed that we didn't get to hear from more guest speakers, but I did enjoy the ones that we did get to listen to. With the end so near, our group is planning on doing the most we can with the time we have left. Having already submitted quite a few issues and PRs, we plan to keep up the pace and try to make 3 more PRs as a group this week and, even if we couldn't fix them, submit issue reports for the bugs that we've managed to find.
<!--more-->
<br><br>
This week, we were able to meet and discuss our collective and individual progress. Since Jarvis is all about plugins, we've decided that adding useful plugins, no matter how simple, is always a good contribution. We decided that we would separately make three plugins for this week, and make the PRs before we have to present. During our initial installation process, we also discovered quite a lot of bugs, and since we won't have the time to get around to solving all of them, we still plan to report these bugs so that they are known and can be solved by others.
<br><br>
I think one thing that I learned from this is that programming for different platforms is quite a difficult task, especially when the software hasn't been packaged and all users from all platforms are using the same exact software. Jarvis is all bundled in to one repository and the user simply clones it and runs python installer, and so the code has to take into account all operating systems. For example, one issue we ran into is when we tried to set the font colour based on terminal background, but it turned out that simply detecting the background would be difficult because it's all different code and functions and libraries for each operating system. We did intend to make an auto-detect feature but ultimately we decided against it. Another user came into the issue thread and was eventually able to resolve the issue, which we were all happy about, and did not conflict with our changes either.
<br><br>
