---
layout: post
title: Week 7 - Starting group work
---

We began group work this week. I think my team is comprised of very capable and easy going teammates, Phoebus, Pasindu, and Amando, who I'm pretty sure was in the same first year cohort as me. Given that I had worked with Phoebus and Pasindu on the two previous projects before and saw how talented and quick to contribute they were, I'm confident that we can do very well on our team contributions.
<!--more-->
<br><br>
During out meeting on Monday, we were quick to come to a consensus on which project to contribute to. We decided to work on Jarvis, which was evaluated by Amando and deemed beginner-friendly and had a nice and welcoming, as well as active enough community. Jarvis is written almost entirely in Python, which we were all well-versed in and so we won't need to waste time learning a new language, and there is a very wide degree of freedom regarding what we can do for the project, as it is a personal assistant like Siri or Cortana, but anyone is welcome to add any new functionalities to it.
<br><br>
The project repo provided a video as a kind of beginner's tutorial and demo on Jarvis's functionalities, however the video is 5 years old and we thought it probably doesn't reflect the project today, and to have a more up-to-date understasnding of it we should look into the code and install Jarvis itself first and try it out a bit before discussing what to do. However, we did come up with some initial ideas, such as improving UI to make it more sci-fi for those who prefer a more immersive experience, as well as definitely adding some more functionalities.
<br><br>
We decided that we would meet at least once a week, on Friday afternoons at 2p.m., and we created a Discord channel so we can talk about it outside of meeting/class time and leave messages for each other there. We've contacted the creator of Jarvis, Sukeesh, and are awaiting his reply.
<br><br>
In terms of contributions themselves, I'm definitely very optimistic about what we can do for this project. Because we all know Python and we all seem to be creative people, I think we can collectively come up with something creative and also useful to add on to Jarvis. I think the four of us are also quite ambitious as well, so I doubt that we will be solely focusing on resolving simple bugs or looking for good-first-issues to fix. Of course we will also make these small bug fixes, but ultimately I think our goal as a team lies in making something truly unique and interesting to contribute. We haven't discussed the details yet since we still need to take some time to each individually try out Jarvis and see what's missing and what could be improved on.
<br><br>
Running Jarvis on my machine (Windows) actually immediately brought up some problems. After following installation instructions I was unable to run jarvis from my cmd ('command no found' error). I know this is probably one of those PATH problems Windows users so often faces, but after looking into the issues tab I found that, even though there was one or two other people who brought this up, their issues didn't seem resolved. After I resolve my own issue on my local machine, I think I can probably bring this up with my teammates and our first issue can be to improve this, and maybe help the user who had this issue resolve their issue if we can, and create a FAQ or improve on the installation instructions so that potential solutions to these known issues can be documented.
<br><br>
Also, the current installation instructions are also a bit unclear. It says, 'clone this repository and run `python installer`', which to me is a little vague. I think we can also help improve this so that it is a step by step manual, such as 1. Clone this repo, 2. cd into the repo, 3. Type the following into the terminal: `python installer` 4. Wait for the instsallation to complete. This way it is much clearer, as when I read the current instructions I wasn't too sure if I was to run 'python install jarvis'.
<br><br>
I'm looking forward to making contributions to this project, and to working with my team. I think we'll make a good team, and the rest of the semester is going to be fun.