---
layout: post
title: Week 7 - FreeDOS and more group work
---

This week, we looked into FreeDOS with invited speaker Jim Hall, and started on more concrete work for our group projects. Though we haven't yet moved on to the coding aspect of the contributions, we still have made some interesting discoveries when playing with Jarvis.
<!--more-->
<br><br>
When reading about what FreeDOS is, I was actually very confused as to why it's even being maintained actively as an open source project. To me, it seemec like an outdated system where not many people are using it anymore, and not even many people have even heard of DOS. When I first saw the acronym, I thought it referred to denial of service, as with DDOS. But after reading the article on what it is, as well as some more specific definitions on the freeDOS website, I pondered the line where it claims to support legacy software.
<br><br>
For me, it seemed like a very niche and specific thing that's meant to be a support/backup system for anyone or a business that wants to run software from ages ago. I thought about it and I suppose that in that regard, should anyone have the need to have access to legacy software for legal or business reasons, it would come in very useful. Still, though, it seemed like you'd need to have quite some experience, skill, and passion for it to become involved in contributing to FreeDOS. But then again, open source isn't all about popular software.
<br><br>
This week, we kept working on familiarising ourselves with Jarvis, figuring out how it works, what APIs it pulls from, trying out its functions, and evaluating whether it can be improved on in our own terms. It turned out that right from the installation process, there could be problems. While me, as a Windows user, faced path problems, my groupmates, who use MACs, also faced problems with python installation modules and such. The installation process as described in the README of Jarvis's GitHub repo only consists currently of a one line 'clone this repo and run `python installer`', but this is very vague and there aren't any FAQs or other guidelines on how to solve issues during installation. Our first step, we decided, is to create a PR that makes the install process more specific, and adds further instructions on how to fix common issues.
<br><br>
Other than that, we also kept track of quite a few other bugs. For example, some small, not very harmful bugs involve UI readability, having to type in specific words into specifying translation language (no regex support or suggestions), and API keys missing when using certain functions such as the news or weather. Other more potentially harmful issues include the 'reboot' function actually rebooting the whole computer instead of rebooting Jarvis, and in the case where someone may have things unsaved this can actually be a big problem.
<br><br>
These are all relatively easy fixes, as is suitable for us beginners. We agreed that we should work on these simple issues first, and if time allows and we become more familiar with the project code, we can maybe work on adding new features, but that is definitely more ambitious and only something to be done if we actually have time and the spare effort to do so.