---
layout: post
title: Week 2 - Code of Conduct / add-on activity
---

There are many benefits to having a Code of Conduct document for a project. Firstly, it ensures that the project provides for a pleasant experienec for all those involved, and that anyone who is part of the project can feel safe and protected against all forms of cyberbullying or harm. Second, it also acts as a promise to anyone new or is looking into joining the project of a safe space, and in doing so acts almost like a form of advertisement for the project, encourgaing more newcomers to join by such a pledge. Thirdly, it also sets the ground rules, and rules are something that any project of any form or community or size should have, and it is a good thing to have in itself. I think anything involving group work, interaction with others, and reliance on collaboration should have such a code of conduct.<br><br>
Two differences between the Contributor Covenant template code of conduct and the one that Go has adapted are as follows: first, the Go CoC has added its own section for Gopher values, and I think they have added this section to add more sincerity to their pledge, so that their CoC is not only a set of rules, but also a set of explanations and assurances as to the values that Gophers share, so that all involved can be assured that others will treat them with such values in mind. Second, the 'Enforcement' section in the Gontributor Covenant template has been replaced with the title 'Conflict Resolution' in the Go CoC, and my personal interpretation is that whoever wrote the CoC for Go has taken in to account that the term 'enforcement' is too harsh sounding and does not align with the peace and friendliness they want in their community, and has replaced it with a much more passive term.<br><br>
The [Eclipse Code of Conduct](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php) is much more harsh and direct with the consequences to those who break their CoC, with long sections on how to deal with those who do so. I'm unsure as to why, but it may be that it is simply a different approach to enforcing the code.<br><br>
<br>
The Sugar Labs CoC is based on the Ubuntu Code of Conduct. It is less specific with its community values and exact actions taken against those who violate the code, but the general idea of being respectful and maintaining a peaceful and friendly community is much the same as Go's CoC.
<br><br>
[Blender's Code of Conduct](https://wiki.blender.org/wiki/Contact/CodeOfConduct#:~:text=We%20will%20only%20take%20actions,is%20not%20a%20productive%20one.) is rather short compared to the two CoCs above, but it is also conveying the same rules and ideals. However it is largely missing on how violations are dealt with and more specific actions to follow.
<br><br>
The add-on activity in class was very fun. In our three-member group, we were able to quickly form friendship and work together very well, helping each other with patience when needed and not telling anyone off when they make simple mistakes, because we all were very understasnding that such mistakes happen, and we had a very enjoyable time. This activity gave us a first glimpse into what it's like to work with others collaboratively, and how to work with having one task to do as a group and assigning roles for who does what. There were of course a few stutters such as all three of us forgetting to log our progress, but we were able to quickly adjust to our work and remind each other of what we were supposed to be doing. All three of us were also very respectful and not trying to steal each other's work or trying to push all the workload on one person. We had very understanding discussions about what extensions to pick, and we had a very quick but efficient back-and-forth during which we decided which extension to look at in our activity, none of us insisting to use their own idea. All in all it was a very rewarding experience. I hope that we can continue being so respectful and productive when we work on our own extension as well.