---
layout: post
title: Week 12 - TidePool, and more group work
---

This week's talk, given by Christopher Snider, is definitely the most enjoyable one so far, and I really liked both Snider and the presentation he gave. He genuinely seemed passionate about his work, and was very nice and funny, and was very engaging throughout, and during his talk I found myself truly becoming invested in his story and his work.
<!--more-->
<br><br>
With last week's discussion around the Cathedral and Bazaar in mind, Snider's life and work is a good example of how "each software should start by scratching a developer's personal itch". Though this isn't exactly the case for TidePool, the sentiment is still that for a software to be good, it should be developed by people who are genuinely interested in the subject and have their own opinion or experience so that they have valuable input and have a good vision for what the software should look like. Snider, who is himself diabetic, and is working among others who are either diabetic themselves or have direct relationship with people who have diabetes, are definitely the ones who are both the most qualified and the most sincere in their work. Even though Tidepool is non-profit, Snider mentioned he still wakes up every day looking forward to the the work he gets to do, and not the work he has to do. Though unrelated to open source, when he said this it really made me reconsider what I should pursue in the future - I should pursue work in an area where I can wake up every day looking forward to the work I get to do, and not wake up groaning each day thinking about all the work I have to do and dreading it. On this note, I would like to make a note right here right now that I will get into a video game company in the future, even if not as a direct game developer, I'm sure there will be other programming related jobs for me to do that are directly involved with the games, and I'm sure this is a job I will genuinely enjoy.
<br><br>
Tidepool being open source and non profit are still surprising to me. I understand the non profit part, but it being open source is still surprising. I think Snider also mentioned the fact that Tidepool is open source causing some problems or unwanted issues when legal things are involved (admittedly I didn't really udnerstand the part where he talked about this as I'm not too familiar with the legal system around software). But I do think that even if open source will cause problems, it is still as good choice that they made. Tidepool is a very user-oriented software, and its sole purpose is to make the lives of its users easier. To make it open source means that any user can put in their two cents, and especially with diabetes as Snider mentioned, every person with different bodies, life styles, eating an exercising habits, will all have different experiences with dealing with diabetes in their lives. So to be able to contribute and make their own voices heard is definitely a good thing.
<br><br>
In terms of problems, our groups isn't really facing any currently. Jarvis's current active mainatiner has been very helpful, and our first PR (which adds specific installation instructions to the README) has already been accepted and merged into the main branch. Though in the contributing document it specifies that all commits should be squashed into one commit, when I made the PR and made an apologetic note that I couldn't squash them, the maintainer still was very understanding and accepted with, and replied that not squashing isn't a big issue. So in terms of interaction with the community, we're doing great, or at least the maintainer has been very nice and we can definitely expect more help from him in the future even if we do run into problems.
<br><br>
However this PR hasn't yet touched on any code fixes, as it only makes changes to the README file. We are currently looking into an easier issue with tweaking some minor things in the code, so when we do finish working on this issue and make the PR, we may run into problems then, as code fixes are more likely to run into merge conflics or other issues, such as code style or making something else error out. So we do anticipate more problems when we delve deeper in to the code, but given how helpful the maintainer is I still don't think this is going to be a big problem. Also, the structure of the code is actually very clear and easy to understand, and there isn't a lot of interaction between each plugin/function that could lead to changing one function affecting another one. Each plugin is in its own file, so adding out own function in the future would also be quite easy.