---
layout: post
title: Week 5 - The Internet Archive
---

The talk given by Mek Karpeles this Wednesday was very interesting, and I learned a lot from it. I really appreciate that these people who have been involved in open source could be invited to talk to us, as it gives us a real look into what it's like to dedicate to open source for such a long time, as well as working on an open soure project as a job.
<!--more-->
<br><br>
Mek gave a very comprehensive overview of his job: how he got into open source, what it was like to work on the Internet Archive in its early days, what his responsibilities were, and how others could get involved. I found especially interesting the motivation behind the project, how Mek described it as analogous to the Library of Alexandria, how it is meant to store knowledge and make it accessible to everyone, as well as preserve it for the future. I also really admired how in the early days of the project, where there were only a handful of people working on it, he had to take on an extreme workload. I also really admire the dedication made by those involved with work such as scanning physical books page by page to make it freely accessible. One thing I didn't really understand was why the books were made to emulate a real life library book-borrowing process, where only one person could have access to a book at a time. I may have to go back to check on this.
<br><br>
A few personal feelings I had about this is that, like I mentioned before in my blog, I think this type of project, the Internet Archive and Wikipedia and others, are exactly what open source should all be about. While some software are for the purpose of crowdsourcing feedback and material for improvement, the IA and Wikipedia are all about making knowledge and resources freely available to all those who have internet access, and to make the learning process more convenient for everyone. Those who contribute are those who have benefited from these projects, and want to make their own contributions to a good cause that could benefit the whole of mankind. Although I'm by no means someone who's all about doing good or doing things that can help the whole world, I do think that these projects are very admirable and I would like to contribute to them in the future.
<br><br>
In terms of contributions this week, I made some small edits to OpenStreetMap. I looked at a few places I'm familiar with in New York, but given that OSM is mostly based in the US, most of these places were already very detailed. So I went and looked at my home in Beijing, and I filled in a few details there. Because OSM should be about providing mapping information to and about the whole world, I felt that even if I made edits to a few obscure places, it may still be of use to someone.
<br><br>
I think one interesting thing that I noticed was that, even though the contributions to our course website should be the most accesible and convenient contribution that we could make, nobody seemed to want to claim my issue until a week after I suggested it. I think perhaps everyone's looking to contribute to other projects such as Wikipedia or OpenStreetMap, and overlooking the simplest thing, or thinks that there aren't many more improvements to be made to the course website. However I think that one should always be thinking about how to improve a website or project, even if it looks very much complete. This is just a thought I had.